Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned





**mkdir** (make direactory)

**pwd**  (Present work directory where we get path of the directory)

**cd**  (switch another directory)









**npm init -y**

**npm install lodash**

**npm install -g yarn**

**yarn set version lates**

**yarn add react**





**npm install react**

**npm install -g nodemon** (nodemon file\_name dile continiusly run korte thakbe server. bar bar server ke run kora lage nh)





1\.

console.log(\_\_dirname);

console.log(\_\_filename);



module: node js er prottek ta js file ek ek ta module.





\#FOR Express

**npm i express**



\#for mongodb

**npm i mongoose**



**npm i body-parser** (onk type er data front end theke aste pare seta ke handle kore )



**npm install dotenv** (mongo username and pass all sensitive information safe rakhe)



data insert=(**POST**) methos

data read= (**GET**) method

data update=**PUT/PATCH**

data delete=(**DELETE**) method





host the server into RENDER

the demo node project link (https://nodeproject-gkcf.onrender.com/person)





\#for authentication

**npm install passport passport-local**

**npm install passport-local** (for local strategy)



\#FOR Hashing password

**npm install bcrypt**







**#cookies:** small piece of data that a website store on user computer/device. it remember user browsing activity, preferences and interaction with the site.

**1.Creation:** when we visit website first time. website sends small text file(cookies) to our browser.

**2.Storage:** it save all info in our local device storage. each site has individual cookies.

**3.sending with request:** when we revisit the website then browser automatically include the cookies from device.

**4.Server Processing:** then server take the cookies and process it.



**two type of cookies,**

**1. session cookies:** temporary cookies and deleted when we close the browsing.

**2. persistent cookies:** this cookies are stored in device for a specific duration.







**#token:** It generated by server using a secret key. store it into user local storage like cookies. its kind of an id card for access the every page of the site. it stay into the cookies.



**#session**





**#difference between session and Token**





**#JWT (JSON web Token)  npm install jsonwebtoken**



**structure:** it has three part header, payload and signature. 

**usages:** commonly use in  authentication and authorization in web application and API. 

**Stateless:** it does not need the server. 



**a: Header** contain type and cryptographic algorithm 

**b: Payload** contain user info/data 

**c: signature** verifies the integrity of token like tempered and expired or not  

**#For Node Interview**

**1.database design (field, schema, mongoose, get, post, delete)**

**2. callback, callback Hell, Async , Await (definition and how it works)**

**3. what is buffer**

**4. How is JavaScript different from Node.js?**

**5. is Node.js single or multi-threaded? ans: single-threaded**

**6. Then How NodeJS Handle multiple task at once?** 

**7. what is Ip address**

**8.How to obtain the IP address of the user in Node.js**

**9. How to install the Node body-parser module?**

**10. What is the use of Nodemon ?**

**11. what is the function of the fs module**

**12. Define os module in node.js**

**13. What is the meaning of HTTP status code 504 ?**

**14. What is load balancer how we balance it**

**14.** 

 



